# Mid Project Check-in

We didn't exactly accomplish the goals we set in the project proposal. Unfortunately, we overestimated the ease with which we could use the SAS files provided by the CDC. We spent about a week and a half trying to clean the data and make it useable, which burned a good chunk of time that we had planned to allocate toward exploring the data and making an interesting argument.
We started over with a data set from the WHO that addressed international life expectancy and hit the sprint goal of creating an animated visualization that compares life expectancy across five different regions of the globe. These five gifs (available in the folder with names *.gif) are the most robust artifacts of progress so far. We also have two iPython notebooks of data exploration that investigate groupings of the WHO's data and a graph that visualizes the number of people left alive/dead in a certain age grouping. We also fully cleaned the WHO data into a useable dataframe.
By next Friday, our MVP is a colored map that shows an age group's life expectancy trend in all six regions. Ideally, it will take the four studies conducted in 1990, 2000, 2012, and 2013 to create a positive or negative slope in the life expectancy and represent the slope with a cool or warm color on the world map. We should be able to use different category variables (number of people still alive in an age group, mortality of people in an age group, etc.) as a sanity check. As a stretch, the severity of the gradient could be shown in the intensity of the color of the map. Another stretch goal would be implementing a GUI that allows for smooth transition between age groups on our map.